# Greenhouse-gases-analysis
A Comparative Analysis of Differences in Global Emissions Databases 
In the pursuit of addressing climate change, assessing the impacts of GHG on the climate system, and their implications, accurately measuring greenhouse gas emissions is vital. Comprehensive emissions data supports effective policy-making and strategic planning to mitigate climate change. This report presents an in-depth analysis of differences in emissions data between two prominent databases: the Community Emissions Data System (CEDS) and the Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research (EDGAR) which is contributing to the FOCI project. The study covers CH4,CO2,NMVOC,NH3,SO2,CO and NOx in the agriculture sector focusing on key differences and their potential implications. 

Background 
CEDS and EDGAR are two widely used global databases that provide estimates for greenhouse gas and pollutant emissions. While both are well-established and respected sources, they use different methodologies, data sources, and assumptions, which lead to differences in emission estimates. Analyzing the differences is essential to understand the uncertainties in emissions estimates used in modelling. Rather than producing independent estimates, CEDS methodology relies on matching default estimates to reliable, existing emission inventories and extending those values to historical years to produce a consistent historical time series (Olivier et al., 2017). With the latest version of EDGAR, subnational-level data is included in the development of new spatial proxies, allowing for a more accurate allocation and analysis of subnational emissions (Hoesly et al., 2018). 
